# End-User Documentation

This folder provides the source for the [COVID-19 Advanced Analytics Workspace
Documentation][aaw-docs], which guides users through the major services of the
platform.

## Contributing

Contribution to this documentation, in the official language of your choice, is
welcome. We provide some commands (`make` targets) to make getting started easy,
but please note that **our development tooling is only tested on Ubuntu Linux
with a Bash shell.**

### Prerequisites

The following software needs to be available on your system. Our scripts won't
install these for you because they generally require super-user and we don't
want that much responsibility. :wink:

- GNU Make (e.g. `apt install make`)
- [Node.js][] (e.g. see [`nvm-sh/nvm`][nvm-installation])
- npm (comes with Node.js)
- Yarn (e.g. `npm install --global yarn`)
- Python 3.x (e.g. `apt install python3`)
- Python venv module (e.g. `apt install python3-venv`)

### Get Started

1. Ensure you have the above prerequisites
2. Clone this repository
3. Change directory to project root
4. Install remaining dependencies: `make install`
5. <!-- markdownlint-disable no-inline-html -->
   Start a docs server in the language of your choice: `make serve-en` or
   `make serve-fr` (<kbd>CTRL</kbd>+<kbd>C</kbd> to quit)
   <!-- markdownlint-enable -->

You can now see your rendered documentation at `http://localhost:8000` and it
should automatically update when you edit/save your files.

### Submit Your Work

Your documentation needs to pass some checks in order to be accepted. You can
run these checks anytime using `make test`, which will alert you of things like
formatting and spelling issues that need to be addressed.

_Note: These checks are also run as a pre-commit hook, so your commit will be
aborted if they fail._

Once your documentation is ready, just submit a pull request to the `master`
branch of this repository. Your contribution will be published to the
[documentation site][aaw-docs] as soon as it's accepted.

## Translation Workflow

To support maintaining English and French versions of this documentation, we
adopt the following workflow for translating content:

1. As English content is contributed and reviewed, merge approved English pull
   requests to master as they become available.
2. Periodically the development team will open an issue to request translation
   from abhinavgurung. This translation request will be for all English content
   changes that occurred between the last English commit on the master branch
   **that has previously been translated** and the present
3. Translations will always be done in chronologically ordered batches (no
   cherry-picking of translation)

To keep track of what has previously been translated, we will keep the long
running feature branch `translated-to-french` which will point to the most
recent commit on master that has been translated:

- When doing a new translation, the translator will look the diff of
  `git diff origin/translated-to-french origin/(SOME_COMMIT_ON_MASTER)` (where
  the commit on master is likely the latest commit) to see what English changes
  have occur since last translation. This documents which new English content
  requires translation to French.
- During translation, the translator should check out the **most recent** commit
  on master and modifying the French content from there. They should not start
  from the `translated-to-french` branch (as this might be missing some new
  French content).
- To commit completed French translation content, cherry pick the new French
  content and merge it into the most recent `master`, but do not overwrite the
  current `master` English content as it may have been updated since translation
  started.
- When a new translation is committed, we will rebase the `translated-to-french`
  branch onto the last translated commit (eg: `SOME_COMMIT_ON_MASTER` from
  above). Do not rebase onto the commit that actually merged in the latest
  French update as that may be missing additional English changes.

Note: all French-to-English translations should be done on a case-by-case basis
and refer to specific pull requests. These should be generated by the committor
and will not be batched automatically like the English-to-French translations.

[aaw-docs]: https://statcan.github.io/daaas/
[node.js]: https://nodejs.org/
[nvm-installation]: https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm#installing-and-updating
